12
CHAPTER 1: THE UPHEAVAL BEGINS
13

1

THE UPHEAVAL BEGINS

I know, I know. I had read the articles warning me not to run a marathon without ample preparation. But unless you count one four-mile run a couple of weeks before the event as "preparation," then nothing went into my prep—save my usual core workouts and the occasional swim. Etched into my mind was the warning email from the Stockholm Marathon: "Running 42,195 meters is an endurance test. Do not start unless you are entirely healthy."

A few weeks before the big day, I remember walking into The Colorado Running Company and being asked by an associate, "What race do you plan to run?" After telling him I was set to run the Stockholm marathon, he sized me up and said, "What has been your training program?" Not wanting to go into the fact that I had not yet run a single mile in preparation (my four-mile preparatory run was still in the future), I replied, "It's been a bit unconventional, but it's going great." Thankfully, my answer somehow satisfied him, and he moved on to his next question, "Cash or credit?"

In no way am I advocating ignoring medical or professional advice (or common sense), but as I thought about my plan to run the marathon despite my "unconventional" preparation, a deeper lesson was gleaned. We can easily dismiss ourselves from the most important races of life simply because we feel ill-prepared.

(Oh, and in case you're wondering, on that rainy Saturday in Sweden, with one goal in mind—to finish the marathon—I lined up with nearly 17,000 other runners, and my legs somehow carried me to the finish line!)

WHAT'S STOPPING YOU?

The Bible is full of stories of people who felt they were not up to the challenges to which God called them. Moses stated a lack of eloquence as his excuse when God commissioned him to shepherd the children of Israel out of Egypt. Gideon considered his family background a hindrance when God selected him to lead the army against the mighty Midianites. The widow of Sidon lamented her lack of resources when the prophet Elijah informed her that she would be the channel of God's provision for him. Jeremiah suggested that his age was a problem when God called him to be His spokesman. Peter looked at his past and tried to quit....

As reflected in the adage, "God doesn't call the equipped; He equips the called," all these people felt ill-prepared to run the race God had put before them. But the common denominator between them all was that God was with them. He was more than enough.

Following Christ is not about how prepared we feel. It is about an invitation. It is an ultimatum—echoed in Christ's words to a few fishermen on the shores of the Sea of Galilee: "Follow Me" (Matthew 4:19).

FOLLOWING CHRIST IS
NEVER ABOUT HOW
PREPARED WE FEEL.

An invitation. A call. A choice. A readiness to step out of life's comfort zones for the pursuit of the eternal. God calls ordinary people into extraordinary lives. When Christ met them, Peter and Andrew were casting their nets—focused on the work at hand. James and John were mending their nets—preparing for their future. Matthew sat in his tax booth—further establishing his career. But Christ stepped in and invited them to pursue a new occupation, and dream of a different future.

Perhaps you are like these disciples. You are not planning to have your life radically changed in the next few hours while reading this book. Here then is a question for you: Are you willing to have your occupation and future changed by Jesus' invitation? Are you clutching your nets while Christ calls you to impact the nations? Are you willing to be called from what you thought was your future into what Jesus has prepared for you?